In the last video we talked about minimizing text and minimizing images.
And I said minimizing images is a little bit more complex.
So let's take a look at that.
And this video
now the primary way to change an image size is to change the file format and pick the file format that
is the best for the job.
And this is actually fairly easy to do was just a few mouse clicks.
We have jpeg gif P.N. G and SPG and these are the four main image file formats used on the web.
And they each have their own specific use cases.
So let's go through them and learn how to optimize them Jay Pags over here are usually used for photos
images and things with many colors such as photographs.
The one downside with JPEG is that they don't really allow for transparency.
So what does that mean.
Say for example you want an image background to be transparent so that the color of the background behind
it shines through.
Now with JPEG you can't really do that to have a transparent background.
You must use something like PNB or gef which we'll talk about.
So J bags for complex images with lots of colors.
They also tend to be a little bit vague and file size I guess.
Well everybody knows guess they often look grainy and oddly colored because usually limit the number
of total colors that you can use in a GIF.
It's usually somewhere between 2 to 256 and reducing the color count least to huge false savings.
And that's why they're really really good for small animations.
Everyone knows what a GIF is and there are more than enough cat gifs out there on the internet then
to watch in the lifetime dingies usually limit the number of colors you can use and they tend to be
a lot smaller in size than jetpacks because of that and they're used a lot around the web for things
like Logos since they usually only have a few sets of colors that you need.
The cool thing with piano is that you can add transparency to them which you cannot do in JPEG.
As we said finally as Fiji is in a completely different category from all the other three file formats
that we talked about there are actually something called vector graphics and these are files that designers
usually work with on Adobe Illustrator or something like sketch where you can do with SVGA is that you
can expand an SPG to several times its original size and it will be just a sharp and justice clear as
the original was.
Also they happen to be incredibly small for what they do and they're really really good for things like
retina display or 40 displays and the cool part is you can also customize them using SS but they aren't
just perfect.
They usually tend to be very simplistic visual things with few callers.
Now there are many more things we can go into with images and there are a ton of resources online to
get familiar with each file type.
For example there are new image formats that have come out recently with really cool sounding names
like jpeg 2000 JPEG X are wepe.
They are actually all superior compression and quality characteristics compared to these older JPEG-XR
and PNB counterparts and encoding your images in this new file formats means they would load faster
and consume less cellular data.
However browsers support for these new types it's still not completely there yet.
So we're just going to focus on these for now.
Now the main thing you want to get out of this part is that you want to pick the right format of images
and then compress them as much as you can without minimizing their quality.
I'm going to show you some compression techniques in the next video.
So don't worry.
All right Ali some resources for you to check out.
If you really want to learn more about these topics.
But for now let's keep going into the next video.
See that one by.